My biggest enemy in life right now is my own inability to do anything significant without absolute certainty in its outcome. Apparently, it's been a problem ever since I was a little kid, but it's only been getting worse with time, and now that I'm an adult, I feel that it's more important than ever for me to figure this problem out.

This issue exists on a minor and major level for me. On a minor level, I have trouble pursuing my hobbies because I can't be sure of the outcome. I have a writing hobby, but I've been struggling to get back in it because I want to write professionally, but I don't know if I ever will. I don't trust myself to write anything good. I don't know if people will like what I'm working on. I don't know if I'll ever be commercially successful. I don't know if I'll even be interested in writing in a few years. There are too many variables, and thinking about them all paralyzes me. This is just an example, mind you. There are other things in my personal life that I overthink, as well.

On a major level, I have a hard time having any plans or expectations for the future because of just how chaotic the world is. I live in the United States right now, and while there are certainly worse places to live, there's a lot of social and political upheaval right now, especially surrounding the November midterms and gun violence. I know that some of my fears are statistically unlikely, but I'm terrified of civil war, getting shot in a social setting, climate change severely impacting my home, another pandemic breaking out in the near future, general violence and chaos, and so much more. It's enough to make me never want to leave home, although I'm not foolish enough to assume that I can hide from misfortune in my bedroom.

What annoys me much more than it should is when I tell people about my fear of uncertainty, and they respond by promising me that "things always work out" or "things will get better". I know that they mean well, but that doesn't make me feel better. You can't promise that things will get better because you're not in control of everything. You can certainly hope that things work out, but making a promiseabout things that you have no influence on just feels hollow and just makes me more upset.